# Terraform Beginner Bootcamp 2023 - Week 2

## Working with Ruby

### Bundler
It is a package manager for `Ruby` and is the primary way to install `Ruby` packages (known as Gems). Using Bundler, `Ruby` project helps in tracking and installing the exact gems and versions that are needed.

### Install Gems

To use Gems in your project, you need `Gemfile`. This `Gemfile` is used for describing dependencies used for the `Ruby` program. A [gemfile](https://medium.com/never-hop-on-the-bandwagon/gemfile-and-gemfile-lock-in-ruby-65adc918b856#:~:text=A%20Gemfile%20is%20a%20file,of%20these%20gems%20to%20use.) has at least one source and a `Gem` is collection of Ruby codes. Here is a sample `Gemfile`: 

```
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem 'sinatra'
gem 'rake'
gem 'pry'
gem 'puma'
gem 'activerecord'
```

After creating the required Gemfile, you need to install it. For that we run `bundle install`. `bundle install` is a command we use to install the dependencies specified in your Gemfile at the global level. After executing the command, you will notice a new file generated by the name of `Gemfile.lock` The Gemfile.lock file is where Bundler records the exact versions that were installed. This way, when the same library/project is loaded on another machine, running bundle install will look at the Gemfile.lock and install the exact same versions, rather than just using the Gemfile and installing the most recent versions.

### Executing Ruby Scripts in context of the bundler

Now to execute it, we use `bundle exec`. The goal of bundler is to allow your application to use specific versions of gems (libraries and executables) without installing them globally. By using "bundle exec", you're telling bundler to execute that specific version installed via your Gemfile/Gemfile.lock.

### Sinatra 

[`Sinatra`](https://sinatrarb.com/) is a web framework and used to quickly create web application in Ruby. It is often preferred for development environment because its lightweight and is often used for simple projects. 

## Terratowns Mock Web Server

For our Project, we will be using `Sinatra` as it is lightweight but also we are implementing a simple project. To use this specific server, we execute the following commands: 

```
bundle install
bundle exec ruby server.rb
```
All the code required for our server is present in the `server.rb` [file](../terratowns_mock_server/server.rb).  
